Add gvproxy to windows packages (#16807)
containers/podman: docs/tutorials/qemu-remote-tutorial.md

# Podman Remote clients for macOS and Windows with QEMU

***
**_NOTE:_** For running Podman on Windows, refer to the [Podman for Windows](podman-for-windows.md) guide, which uses the recommended approach of a Podman-managed Linux backend. For Mac, see the [Podman installation instructions](https://podman.io/getting-started/installation). This guide covers the advanced usage of Podman with a custom Linux VM or a remote external Linux system.
***

## Introduction

> There are officially supported podman machines with QEMU on macOS and WSL2 on Windows, but if one wants to use manually configured QEMU VM in a remote mode this could guide them through.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are officially supported podman machines with QEMU on macOS and WSL2 on Windows, but if one wants to use a manually configured QEMU VM in remote mode, this guide should be helpful.
```

> This writing will focus on Windows, because there is no official QEMU support provided, but it should be relatively easy to adapt them for macOS use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This writing will focus on Windows because no official QEMU support is provided, but it should be relatively easy to adapt the following for macOS use if desired.
```

## Prerequisites

> * Windows 11 or 10 with unix domain sockets support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Windows 11 or 10 with Unix domain sockets support
```

* SSH client feature installed on the machine
* Hyper-V acceleration should be operational on the machine
* Direcroty `C:\qemu-remote\` will be used for storing needed assets

> * Port `57561` free to use it for ssh over loopback interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Port `57561` is free to use for ssh over a loopback interface
```

## Obtaining and installing

### QEMU

Download QEMU (7.2.0 minimal) from https://qemu.weilnetz.de/w64/

> Then download the FCOS image for QEMU from https://getfedora.org/coreos/download?tab=metal_virtualized&stream=testing&arch=x86_64

Reviewer: Unless I missed that you spelled this out earlier.
```suggestion
Then download the Fedora CoreOS (FCOS) image for QEMU from https://getfedora.org/coreos/download?tab=metal_virtualized&stream=testing&arch=x86_64
```

One will need `.xz` format extraction tool like xz itself or 7-zip. Use it to extract the `.qcow2` image to C:\qemu-remote\fedora-coreos-37.20221127.2.0-qemu.x86_64.qcow2

> With xz the command line (when run from the same directory) will be `xz -d fedora-coreos-37.20221127.2.0-qemu.x86_64.qcow2.xz`

Reviewer: suggestion for consideration
```suggestion
With xz the command line (when run from the same directory) will be 
```
xz -d fedora-coreos-37.20221127.2.0-qemu.x86_64.qcow2.xz
```

### Podman

> Download or prepare Podman Windows build with `gvproxy` included and install as default.

Reviewer: Can you add links here for both of these options please?

Author: I reworked this section as build instructions for the Podman installer are extremely complex. So, I referenced the Podman releases and provided instructions on how to build `gvproxy.exe` if it is missing in the installer (releases before this PR is merged).

### SSH

> Generate ssh keys with empty passphrase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generate ssh keys with an empty passphrase
```

ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f C:\qemu-remote\remote

### Ingition for FCOS

> Create ignintion file C:\qemu-remote\remote.ign with content of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create ignition file C:\qemu-remote\remote.ign with the content of
```

```

Replace "YOURSSHKEYHERE" with the actual pub keys you generated.

> ## Laucning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Launching
```

### gvproxy

> One needs to run gvproxy first to make it ready for the QEMU VM launched afterwards. Run it  with the command below

Reviewer: Or a period at the end if you don't like the semi.
```suggestion
One needs to run gvproxy first to make it ready for the QEMU VM launched afterward. Run it  with the command below:
```

```
gvproxy.exe -listen-qemu unix://C:/qemu-remote/vlan_remote.sock -pid-file C:\qemu-remote\proxy.pid -ssh-port 57561 -forward-sock C:\qemu-remote\podman.sock -forward-dest /run/user/501/podman/podman.sock -forward-user core -forward-identity C:\qemu-remote\remote
```

### QEMU

> Laucnh QEMU with the following command (it is configure for 4 CPUs and 8 GB RAM, but could be adjusted for less):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launch QEMU with the following command (the following configures it to use 4 CPUs and 8 GB RAM, but it could be adjusted for less):
```

```
qemu-system-x86_64.exe -m 8192 -smp 4 -fw_cfg name=opt/com.coreos/config,file=C:\qemu-remote\remote.ign -netdev stream,id=vlan,server=off,addr.type=unix,addr.path=C:\qemu-remote\vlan_remote.sock -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=vlan,mac=5a:94:ef:e4:0c:ee -device virtio-serial -chardev socket,path=C:\qemu-remote\ready.sock,server=on,wait=off,id=apodman-machine-default_ready -device virtserialport,chardev=apodman-machine-default_ready,name=org.fedoraproject.port.0 -pidfile C:\qemu-remote\vm.pid -machine q35,accel=whpx:tcg -cpu max,vmx=off,monitor=off -drive if=virtio,file=C:\qemu-remote\fedora-coreos-37.20221127.2.0-qemu.x86_64.qcow2
```

### First time launch extras

> Observe QEMU loading and wait for the message of SSH keys being provisioned to the machine. Next before making first ssh connection one would need to add it to known hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Observe QEMU loading and wait for the message of SSH keys being provisioned to the machine. Next, before making the first ssh connection, one would need to add it to known hosts.
```

We are using `127.0.0.1` instead of `localhost` to force IPv4.

```
ssh-keyscan -p 57561 127.0.0.1 >> %USERPROFILE%\.ssh\known_hosts
```

> ### Add new connection to podman

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add new connection to Podman
```

Reviewer: Except for actual commands, it should be "Podman" through out.

Create a connection named "qemuremote"

```
podman system connection add --identity C:\qemu-remote\remote -p 57561 qemuremote ssh://core@127.0.0.1
```

#### Optional

Make it default for simplicity of operation/testing

```
podman system connection default qemuremote
```

## Using podman

Choose the active connection to be "qemuremote" (not needed if one made it default).

Run some basic network enabled workload:

```
podman run -d --rm -p 8080:80 nginx
```

Test it with 

```
curl http -v http://localhost:8080
```

## Shutting down the machine

> Podman machine built in machinery will not work for custom machine. One would need to gracefully shutdown it connecting via SSH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The built-in machinery of  Podman machine will not work for a custom machine. One needs to gracefully shut it down by connecting via SSH:
```
